 Basic Linux Commands - part 2

Task: What is the linux command to

1)Linux command to view what's written in a file.
i)The simplest way to view text files in Linux is the cat command. 
It displays the complete contents in the command line without using inputs to scroll through it.
ii) nl
The nl command is almost like the cat command. The only difference is that it prepends line numbers while displaying the text in the terminal.
iii) Less
Less command views the file one page at a time. The best thing is that you exit less (by pressing q), there are no lines displayed on the screen. Your terminal remains clean and pristine.

2)Linux command to change the access permissions of files.
In linux there are three types of owners:user ,groups and others.
Linux user: A user is the owner of the file.
Linux group: Group is a collection of users.
Other: Any users who is not part of our user or group category is called other.

Linux file permissions:
i)Read permission: Read permission allow users to open and read the file only.
ii)Write permission: It allows user to modify the file.
iii)Executable permission: It allows the user to run an executable script.

Note that we can find permissions of files and folders using long listing (ls -l) on a Linux terminal.
chmod is the command which is used to change the access permission of files.
Syntax :
chmod permissions filename

Permissions can be changed using two modes:
Symbolic mode
Absolute mode

We will take an example of Absolute mode
Absolute mode uses numbers to represent permissions and mathematical operators to modify them.
Permissions are provided using addition
Permission | Provide permission
read       |  add 4
write      |  add 2
execute    |  add 1

Permissions are revoked using subtraction
Permission | Provide permission
read       |  subtract 4
write      |  subtract 2
execute    |  subtract 1

Example:

Set read (add 4) for user, read (add 4) and execute (add 1) for group, and only execute (add 1) for others.
chmod 451 file-name



3)Linux command to check which commands you have run till now.
History command is used to check the commands you have run till now

To view history one page at a time,you can use the following:
history | less
To view just the last ten commands, you can use the following:
history | tail
To view the last 25 commands, just use the following:
history 25

4)Linux command to remove a directory/ Folder.
The rm command removes complete directories, including subdirectories and files.
The rmdir command removes empty directories.
It is important to note that the rm and rmdir commands permanently remove directories without moving them to the Trash directory.
 This means that you cannot restore a directory removed using these commands.

5)Linux command to create a fruits.txt file and to view the content.
So to create a fruits.txt file we are using echo command and then we use cat command to display the contents
eg:
echo Happy new year >> fruits.txt
cat fruits.txt

6)Linux command to add content in devops.txt (One in each line) - Apple, Mango, Banana, Cherry, Kiwi, Orange, Guava.
We are going to use echo command to concatenate each line to the devops.txt file.
eg:
echo Apple >> devops.txt
echo Mango >> devops.txt

7)Linux command to show only top three fruits from the file.
-To show only first three fruits we will use Head command,however by default it shows 10 lines.We can pass a -n, where n is the number of lines from top that we want as an output.

To Show only bottom three fruits from the file.
-To show only bottom three fruits we will use tail command,however by default it shows 10 lines.We can pass a -n, where n is the number of lines from bottom that we want as an output. -To show only first three fruits we will use head command,however by default it shows 10 lines.We can pass a -n, where n is the number of lines from bottom that we want as an output.


-To create another file Colors.txt and to view the content.
-We are going to use touch command to create the file and cat command to view the content of the file 

Add content in Colors.txt (One in each line) - Red, Pink, White, Black, Blue, Orange, Purple, Grey.
-We can add each color in the file using echo command.
eg:
echo Red >> Colors.txt
echo Pink >> Pink

To find the difference between fruits.txt and Colors.txt file.
-To find the difference between content of two files we can use diff command.
eg
diff fruits.txt Colors.txt