This is my day-03 Task submission file


1. To view what's written in a file:

The command to view the contents of a file is "cat". For example, to view the contents of a file named "example.txt", you would run the following command:

cat example.txt


2. To change the access permissions of files:

The command to change the access permissions of a file is "chmod". For example, to give read, write, and execute permissions to the owner of a file named "example.sh", you would run the following command:

chmod 700 example.sh

3. To check which commands you have run till now:

The command to check the history of commands that have been run in the current terminal session is "history". For example, to view a list of the last 10 commands that were executed, you would run the following command:

history 10

4. To remove a directory/ Folder:

The command to remove a directory/folder is "rmdir" or "rm". For example, to remove a directory named "exampledir", you would run the following command:

rmdir exampledir
 
or 

rm -r exampledir

The "-r" option is used to remove a directory and its contents recursively.

5. To create a fruits.txt file and to view the content:

The command to create a new file is "touch". For example, to create a new file named "fruits.txt", you would run the following command:

touch fruits.txt

to view the content of file, you would run following command :

cat fruits.txt

6. Add content in devops.txt (One in each line) - Apple, Mango, Banana, Cherry, Kiwi, Orange, Guava:

The command to add content to a file is "echo". For example, to add the list of fruits to a file named "devops.txt", you would run the following command:


echo "Apple
Mango
Banana
Cherry
Kiwi
Orange
Guava" > devops.txt

The ">" symbol is used to redirect the output of the "echo" command to a file.

7. To Show only top three fruits from the file:

The command to show only the top three lines of a file is "head". For example, to show only the top three fruits in the "devops.txt" file, you would run the following command:

head -n 3 devops.txt

The "-n" option is used to specify the number of lines to show.

8. To Show only bottom three fruits from the file:

The command to show only the bottom three lines of a file is "tail". For example, to show only the bottom three fruits in the "devops.txt" file, you would run the following command:

tail -n 3 devops.txt

9. To create another file Colors.txt and to view the content:

1) Open the terminal.
2) Type the following command to create the file:

touch Colors.txt

3)Type the following command to open the file in vi editor:

vi Colors.txt

4) Press "i" to enter insert mode.
5)Type the following content, one in each line:

Red
Pink
White
Black
Blue
Orange
Purple
Grey

6) Press "Esc" to exit insert mode.

7) Type ":wq" to save and exit the file.

10. To find the difference between fruits.txt and Colors.txt files, you can use the "diff" command. Here are the steps:

diff fruits.txt Colors.txt

This will show you the differences between the two files. The output will show which lines are unique to each file and which lines are different between the files.


